Israel's military launched a
new wave of airstrikes
on the region Thursday morning.
The Palestinian health
ministry says more than 1200
people have been killed
and at least 6000
wounded by Israeli bombardment.
The health ministry says
it expects hospitals to run out of fuel
for generators today,
leading to what it calls
catastrophic conditions.
Joining us now is no shower, Oxfam
regional country
relations manager in Gaza City.
Najla,
thank you so much for sparing this time
to speak to us.
I know that yesterday
or certainly earlier
this week, Oxfam was
warning that what's happening in
Gaza would lead to
a humanitarian catastrophe.
Would you say that's already begun?
Yes. Hi.
Thanks for having me, first of all.
Yeah.
It's very obvious
that the crisis is increasing rapidly
and there is a severe,
severe impact on
on the population of Gaza.
The entire population of Gaza.
The numbers of of displaced
people has been increasing,
reaching to around 200
plus thousand people
within the Gaza Strip and some are
are in and under U.N.
administered schools
trying to take shelters there.
We are extremely worried
because of the tightening
of the Israeli siege.
We have to be aware
that the Israeli siege
has been there for more than 15 years.
And so when you ask me about electricity,
we never had
a full day of electricity
since more than 15, 16 years.
And now we have zero electricity before.
At the best times we had to wait.
And that's just an example at 8 hours.
I mean,
and currently
we are extremely worried
about the infrastructure
that is responsible for delivering basic
services such as water.
So electricity affects
water directly in the Gaza Strip.
There is no ability to pump
water to the networks.
That's also in addition
to that, severe damages.
That is not yet clear.
The the extent of the extent of it,
that's apparently is going to be a very,
very grave.
And I think what is also
most important to know
that Gaza is already
suffering before October 2nd,
before October 7th,
you will have half of the population
under poverty.
You are living in a situation
when there is no economic
viability of any activity.
Israel has full control about on export
and import.
Israel conducts
regular attacks and that affects
livelihood groups within the Gaza Strip.
Yeah.
So just
in terms of your immediate concerns,
obviously,
Secretary Blinken
is trying to organize
a humanitarian corridor
that's going to be very difficult
to negotiate right now,
isn't it, with the Israelis,
because they're talking
about a complete siege.
But what is the most important thing
that you need right now
just to get through the next few days?
What is really needed immediately
is to have a ceasefire to
to to allow people of Gaza to
to receive support and basic services, to
at least for the paramedics to be able to
to have have some work around it,
that hospitals hospitals are packed with
with injuries.
There are still injuries that
are are everywhere.
There is no accessibility to
organizations on the ground
to to deliver support.
There's no ability for our population
to move and get get what we need or,
you know, get the water that we need
or the food that we need.
We need immediate,
immediate ceasefire so that we are able
also to support those who are under
under these very,
very harsh
circumstances, especially
who are taking shelter at the schools
and who are being hosted
in just very random places
and public places
around the Gaza Strip, I,
I only want everyone
I know
person really
is not living in their home.
Everyone I know is
is moving from one place to another,
from a public place
to another, at home to a relative, etc..
This must it must be stopped.
And I think
it's going to be very worrying
in terms of supplies, food supplies,
entry of medical supplies
and all of these essential items.
I mean, by the hour, that is.
And severe, severe suffering in addition
to the actual death in the
in the hospitals themselves
that are overloaded
with with injuries and casualties
from some of the bombings just.
Please don't continue this interview.
If you feel that
you need to
go somewhere else for your safety.
Do you do you need to leave?
It's fine.
No, I'm good.
It's not what it's like all the time.
Yeah, I mean, exactly.
Just this morning,
there was a massive airstrike
at Al-Shati camp,
and it's it's extremely shocking
the images.
And I hope these images will make
will make news out at your
your channel, for example, where
it seems there's a huge massacre.
It's a densely populated area
where just bodies are on the job.
And I mean,
I think the situation
is extremely critical
and negotiating safe passage.
I'm not sure if this is
going to be
just to evacuate foreigners or that
or who
I mean,
this does not really respond to what
what would what people would need.
Of course, it's an interesting
you know, I just.
Wanted to offer on your back,
you know, you've just had that, you know,
it was also a very close explosion
and you just sat there
and carried on with the interview.
Whereas, you know what?
You know,
a lot of people
watching would assume
you would run off
and go to some safe space.
But is it
because you just haven't
got anywhere to go
and you're just so used to it?
Well, absolutely.
Thank you.
Thank you for raising this.
I mean, in the entire Gaza Strip,
I mean, we don't have shelters.
I mean
I mean, the best circumstances
is that you go to I would love you know,
I'm very lucky.
I have a basement
where that's
why I'm receiving
more than 12 people
in addition to my family
who are all now I'm hosting at my place.
And so they are unable
to go back to their homes
because they are severely damaged.
And my area that was wiped and
we're managing to live together.
So whenever that is
something, you know,
kind of close
or big like this, we just,
you know,
walk around in the corridors
and then slowly, slowly
go to the lower level, etc..
And we we stick around each other.
And that's what happened at 5 a.m.
this morning, for example,
when massive airstrikes were happening in
the Gaza port
and and the west,
the western side of the city,
just across across the street from me,
that was the building that was
totally destroyed.
We had to evacuate.
We we left running basically with
in the middle of the night after 1 a.m.
two nights ago.
And all of us, we were 20, stopped
at my house, 20, 20, 22 people
who who fled their region came to us.
Then we moved all of us to two different.
We we split into two different places.
I mean,
we're talking about the
mad situation here,
a totally mad situation.
And I
should thank you
so much for joining us this morning.
Obviously, your priority is to help
these people and these civilians.
But this is obviously
this is your life as well.
And we've seen that
expressed so obviously today.
Best of luck with what you're doing
and thank you for making the time.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me.